<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="car_maintenance">
    <title>Vehicle Maintenance</title>
    <shortdesc>Essential maintenance procedures to keep your vehicle in optimal condition.</shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <prereq>
            <p>Before performing maintenance, ensure your vehicle is parked on a level surface with the engine off and cool. Have appropriate tools and safety equipment ready.</p>
        </prereq>
        <context>
            <p>Regular maintenance extends your vehicle's lifespan, improves reliability, maintains fuel efficiency, preserves resale value, and enhances safety. The following sections outline essential maintenance procedures for different vehicle systems.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <stepsection>Regular Maintenance Tasks</stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Check engine oil level and condition</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Locate the dipstick, remove and wipe clean, reinsert fully, and check the oil level indication. Oil should be between minimum and maximum marks and appear clean, not dark and gritty.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Monthly and before long trips</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Inspect tire pressure and condition</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Use a tire pressure gauge to check all tires against specifications usually found on a label inside the driver's door jamb. Inspect for abnormal wear patterns, cuts, bulges, or embedded objects.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Monthly and before long trips</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Examine fluid levels</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Check coolant, brake fluid, power steering fluid, and windshield washer fluid levels. Ensure all are between minimum and maximum marks on their respective reservoirs.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Monthly</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Test all exterior lights</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Verify functionality of headlights (low and high beam), tail lights, brake lights, turn signals, hazard lights, and reverse lights. Replace any non-functional bulbs.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Monthly</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <stepsection>Periodic Maintenance Tasks</stepsection>
            <step>
                <cmd>Replace engine oil and filter</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Drain old oil, replace oil filter, and refill with manufacturer-recommended oil type and quantity.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Every 5,000-7,500 miles (8,000-12,000 km) or per manufacturer's recommendations</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Rotate tires</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Swap tire positions according to manufacturer's recommended pattern to ensure even wear.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Every 5,000-7,500 miles (8,000-12,000 km)</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Replace air filter</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Remove and replace engine air filter if it appears dirty or clogged.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Every 15,000-30,000 miles (24,000-48,000 km) or as needed</p>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Inspect brakes</cmd>
                <info>
                    <p>Check brake pad thickness, rotor condition, and brake fluid quality.</p>
                    <p>Recommended frequency: Every 10,000-15,000 miles (16,000-24,000 km)</p>
                </info>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result>
            <p>Following these maintenance procedures will help ensure your vehicle operates reliably, efficiently, and safely throughout its lifespan.</p>
        </result>
        <example>
            <p>Create a maintenance log to track service history, including dates, mileage, services performed, and parts replaced. This documentation is valuable for warranty purposes and when selling the vehicle.</p>
        </example>
    </taskbody>
</task>