<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="car_history">
    <title>History of Cars</title>
    <shortdesc>The evolution and development of automobiles through history.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
        <section>
            <title>Early Development (1700s-1800s)</title>
            <p>The journey toward modern automobiles began with early experiments in self-propelled vehicles:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>1769: Nicolas-Joseph Cugnot built the first self-propelled mechanical vehicle, a steam-powered tricycle.</li>
                <li>1801: Richard Trevithick built a full-sized steam road locomotive.</li>
                <li>1807: François Isaac de Rivaz designed the first internal combustion engine, which used a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen for fuel.</li>
                <li>1859: Jean Joseph Étienne Lenoir developed the first practical internal combustion engine using coal gas as fuel.</li>
                <li>1876: Nikolaus Otto created the first practical four-stroke engine, a significant advancement in internal combustion technology.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Birth of the Modern Automobile (1880s-1900s)</title>
            <p>The late 19th century saw the emergence of what we would recognize as automobiles:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>1885: Karl Benz built the Benz Patent-Motorwagen, widely regarded as the first practical automobile powered by an internal combustion engine.</li>
                <li>1886: Gottlieb Daimler and Wilhelm Maybach fitted a stagecoach with an engine, creating one of the first four-wheeled automobiles.</li>
                <li>1893: Charles and Frank Duryea built the first practical gasoline-powered automobile in the United States.</li>
                <li>1898: Louis Renault built his first automobile.</li>
                <li>1901: Ransom E. Olds began mass production using a stationary assembly line, creating the Curved Dash Oldsmobile.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Mass Production Era (1910s-1950s)</title>
            <p>The early 20th century transformed automobiles from luxury items to everyday necessities:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>1908: Henry Ford introduced the Model T, aimed at the middle class American family.</li>
                <li>1913: Ford implemented the moving assembly line, revolutionizing manufacturing and drastically reducing production costs.</li>
                <li>1922: The first car radio was introduced.</li>
                <li>1940s: Automotive production shifted to military vehicles during World War II.</li>
                <li>1950s: The post-war economic boom led to larger, more powerful cars with distinctive styling and the rise of American car culture.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Modern Era (1960s-Present)</title>
            <p>Recent decades have seen significant technological advancements in automobile design and functionality:</p>
            <ul>
                <li>1960s-1970s: Oil crises prompted increased focus on fuel efficiency and smaller cars.</li>
                <li>1970s-1980s: Electronic systems began replacing mechanical components, and safety features like airbags were introduced.</li>
                <li>1990s: Computer technology became integral to vehicle operation and diagnostics.</li>
                <li>2000s: Hybrid vehicles gained mainstream popularity, beginning with the Toyota Prius.</li>
                <li>2010s: Advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and connectivity features became standard.</li>
                <li>2020s: Development and adoption of electric vehicles accelerated, with major manufacturers committing to electric future.</li>
            </ul>
        </section>
    </conbody>
</concept>